Thank you very much again, everyone, for participating. I said already, thank you very much again
for coming, and be together, and kind of following them, reflecting the teachings.
Now, we are going to again follow the teachings, and when we follow the teachings, that means we
will be practicing, meditating,
listen to the teachings, whatever we are doing regarding the teachings of the Buddha Dhamma is so
important, not just so important, but it's crucial.
It's the basic condition to correct that motivation, or attitude, because motivation is the
foundation.
Motivation is the essential. Motivation is keeping up the practice, exactly as what we want.
Therefore, correcting the motivation, or attitude, that means our mind, we have to correct mind.
From what we have to correct, from our old habit patterns, those are so unhealthy, unbeneficial,
not just unbeneficial, they're troublemakers.
Truly, all the troubles we're going through, experienced, is really fundamental, started from this,
our mind.
Now, we have the life of the greatest teacher, Buddha's teaching. Therefore, we have to reverse
that.
That motivation is not talking about the motivation of others. We're talking, or I'm talking, our
self, my motivation and your motivation.
That is what we have to change. So in order to change, we don't have to do any big things, or
become different things.
It's just really bringing our normal, tailored motivation that we always see, and think, and tell
to others, it's good.
What is that? It's joy, and appreciation. It's simple, it's basic. Joy and appreciation, really
bring.
Joy and appreciation of our own life, precious life, and situation, circumstances that we have now,
it's all that we have to glorify that.
Not let that fall in the midst of the old, old habit patterns and the troubleless death.
Then we really can't almost come to sink in the dark, and completely can't go in the wrong
directions.
That which is samsara, this is samsara. Now we let you reverse, or at least change something to do.
Bring that light in our samsara dilemmas. That light is not just going to come from ourself, we
have to start ourself.
With the assistance of the greatest teacher, Vada Chakra Muni, and work them assemble. So therefore
, for that motivation,
joy and appreciation, our situation, our circumstances, and all teleposons, opportunities, what we
have now.
Particularly, we are connected to the teaching. And in teaching, maybe we think, oh, it's casual
and normal, and this and that.
But that is not just really like that. We really think it's not normal, it's not casual. Teaching
is so precious.
Teaching is nothing but revering our own beautiful nature. Our own goodness highlights that.
That is loving kindness, the compassion. It's joy and appreciation. And that's what we want. That's
what everyone wants.
So that is so special, to highlight that qualities.
Forget with that, in the second motivation, known as bodhicam, of course, you all know, vastness of
motivation.
Of the bodhicam, for all living beings, it's best upon the compassion. Thinking of all living
beings, how many living, going through the difficult travels.
That includes us. We all really go through. But what is really the solution?
Solution is the compassion. Loving kindness. And we really bring up the compassion and loving
kindness in our mind.
That well is, not just is, but it will dispel, it will extend, build a kind of expel out of the
surface.
And not just expel somewhere in the teaching state, it will transform all the difficult travels
into perfect, beautiful, natural states.
So therefore, again, bodhicam. Kindly, compare your thoughts to all living beings.
Today I'm going to practice meditating, reflecting on the teaching. Nothing but to help, to all the
sentences.
May that remove all the suffering and difficulties, travels to every living being. And joy and
peace come immediately in their heart and mind.
And we become without enlightenment. We wish that all very beautiful, as much as we can.
And the next one is known as the motivation of the purity motivation in the teaching state.
Because today's teaching, what we're doing, and also practice what we're doing, is Vedayana
teaching.
And Vedayana teaching often measured everything in purity states. In the divine mandalas,
everything is related.
The mandalas of the Buddha's enlightenment. So we really see that purity status.
In order to see this, what we see? All these forms are enlightenment. All the sounds are
enlightenment songs.
And the mind and space are enlightened states. And in reality, it is all is death.
But why we don't see right now? Because due to our duality mind, and grasping, clinging.
This duality mind is like cataracts. It's completely blocked the pure vision of the way it takes
out.
So now, our practice means we are going to remove the cataracts of the dualities.
Therefore, we're going to reveal the nature. All these purity states. Subject is pure, object is
pure, and everything is purity states.
That is known as Vedayana mandalas. Everything is enlightenment.
When we do, for example, visualizations. Why are we doing the visualizations?
Visualizations get way to discover of that purity. That divine mandalas immediately uses the
powerful skill of meaning technique to dispel the habit of greatness and discovering the mandala.
The purity. Thou subject is enlightened, object is enlightened, everything is enlightened states.
That is part of the method. Immediately we're using that as Buddha taught, known as visualization
or creation states.
So that is really this. Therefore, again, even though we're not doing exactly visualizations,
practice now, but at least open up that thought.
Everything is beauty states. We distort and then reflect the teachings.
Now, teaching what we're going to talk. I'm going to talk, and you're going to learn, or you're
going to reactivate your old understanding of your practices by this teaching, by the great Master
Mohandaj.
This is, and what is it? Discover, promote your wisdom through the Jyotji meditations. That is what
we're going to do in a little bit. It says, "Rum, Jungtak, Yishi, nimkhosya sambhosya."
Now, I talk briefly again about the history of the teachings. Generally, where the teaching comes
from,
it always goes back to the Buddha, Buddha Shakyamuni, who came 600 years ago. A great teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni came, came in his womb.
8/24, he reached enlightenment, becoming enlightened. Seven weeks after the Buddha's enlightenment,
he gave the first teachings,
which according to the very calendar of a system that happened yesterday, turning the wheel of dh
arma.
First teachings that Buddha Shakyamuni gives. These first teachings, the teachings are known as,
known as, the poor noble truth teachings.
Poor noble truth teaching is nothing but teachings on the cause and effect, teachings on the cause
and effort, cause and effort of samsara, cause and effort of nirvana.
But also, there is nothing that is happening without cause and conditions. There is nothing that
will happen.
Everything is caused and conditioned through that combination, developing the result.
That logic goes the same way to the samsara, same way to the nirvana. And so samsara is nothing
happening by itself. It has cause. It has conditions.
Cause is supported by the conditions and developing the samsara. Nirvana has cause and nirvana has
conditions, by the combination of cause and condition and actualizing of the development of nirvan
as.
This combination system is known as in Buddhism, interdependent coordination. It is all interming
led, all connected, all cooperated, that means what cooperation?
Cause is cooperating with the conditions. Conditions are cooperating with the cause.
Mingling that very perfectly, beautifully and developing. This is not just only one cause and one
condition. It has also many factors. Each of those is also connected and cooperated.
Cooperated is known as interdependent, as you all know, you heard. Until nirvana. All in nirvana,
in nirvana, in nirvana, is connected, is nirvana. And through that.
That teaching is, post-teaching is known as then, poor, noble, true teaching. So poor, noble, true
teaching is teaching on the cause and condition of the, cause and effect of the samsara, cause and
effect of the nirvanas.
Positive truth, which is suffering true and cause of suffering true. That is samsara. So samsara is
suffering true and cause of suffering true.
And nirvana is, seseyu true and the poor truth. These two are. What great teacher, Buddha Chakra
Muni said, you must recognize the suffering truth. Recognize it.
And then he said, you must do a bending the cause of suffering truth. This is a very profound topic
, topic. First, we have to know the suffering. Of course, we all know samsara.
Generally, there is two different sufferings. Gross suffering and a sudden sufferings. Gross
suffering, everyone knows. Everyone, even the animals, they know us. We all know.
What we like to do? We like to remove. We don't like to have that. It's painful. It's suffering. It
's dead, difficult, it's trouble. I don't want that. We like to remove.
What we are doing is samsara. What do we think? We look at temporary solutions. This is not what we
are thinking of. I'm going to do temporary things.
But that is the habit better. You only think, "Oh, yes, I like to remove this." Because then, when
you remove, it's gone. That's true for time being. It's subsided.
But the fundamental suffering, the sudden suffering, that we don't know. What is that? That is ego-
claimings.
All these attachments, emotions, that is really sudden sufferings. But same time, that way, this
old suffering is gross and the sudden is coming because it's negative emotions and not knowing.
That is, even if we have temporary solutions to remove the suffering, pain, it's difficult, but of
course it's there, convey it to the there. It comes. Then suffering is endless. It will come back,
even though in that case, it's samsara to you.
If something is solution, then it changes back. You can experience it. Then gross suffering comes.
So that's how we think this samsara is. It's called and then for that reason, what would I say?
When you should know the suffering truth, know the suffering truth, that should also know where it
's coming from.
You should break the knowledge where the suffering is a difficult trouble or challenge is coming,
because it's a cause of suffering truth.
So if we don't want to relieve the suffering, difficult troubles, we have to go to the root. Root
is negative emotions.
Negative emotions, such as ignorance, attachment, anger. Ignorance is also kind of settled. We don
't know that. The gross one is little more gross. Emotions are attachment, anger, jealous, head and
thought.
Those are gross causes of suffering. It's caused and is kind of pushed by the ignorance. We have to
remove them.
That, but in the teaching, says, "Pree from the old, kept up, read out the cause of suffering truth
."
Now, in order to read out the suffering truth, what is? What is that known as? When you read out
the suffering, cause of suffering truth, the suffering truth, when you do that, what is that?
It's called the cessation truth. Cessation is free from the sufferings, free from the cause of
sufferings, not just the suffering, cause of sufferings.
All cause of sufferings are, as I said, negative emotions. Ignorance, attachment, anger, jealous,
head and thoughts. All those, those are the cause of suffering truth.
And that will be, that when you spread all that, what is done? Cessation truth.
In order to do cessation truth, what do we have to do? Cessation is a result, result.
Now the cause and the condition to purify or to remove, take off the suffering truth or difficulty
check and troubles. That is part truth. Part. That is part truth.
Part truth. Then, there is so many great teachers, Buddha Shaktamiri give. Part truth. Part truth
including the Theravada teaching, Mahayana teaching, Shukramahayana teaching, and Vaidyana
teachings.
All those teachings are known as part truth. Everything. It will lead to the real goal of the
accordingly teachings, whatever you follow them. That is part truth.
Now, teachings on this part truth, Buddha give, then Vaidyana teachings, those known as three Prit
aka teachings, three Bhaskar teachings, Vinaya teachings, Abhidhamma teachings, and Sutra teachings.
Those are three principle teachings that will encompass the entire Buddha teaching. That includes,
also is included Vaidyana teaching too.
Vinaya teaching, Sutra teaching, and Abhidhamma teachings. Those are the teachings. The meaning of
that, what we are going to practice.
Meaning of the teachings of all the three Bhaskar teachings is, the principle meaning of the Vinaya
teachings is teachings on the conduct, teachings on the morality.
That means despairing, reducing, and redirecting our whole habit of the negative immuteness.
So, therefore we do the morality practices. It is the best on the conduct.
And then, the Sutra teaching, the principle teaching of the Sutra is teachings on the concentrates.
That is more dealing with mind, more dealing with mind, concentrates.
And very more, meditating on the love and kindness, meditating on the compadres, meditating on the
jokchins, meditating on the Mahamadras, meditating on the Vinayas, or meditating on the Madimamas.
All those teachings are known as concentrated meditations. And which is also the worst practice too
.
And the Muslim practice, the Muslim essence of the Abhidhamma is Muslim, known as the Vastava.
But what is that? It is understanding as it is.
Exiling as it means, related to truth, exiling as it is, absolute truth, exiling as it is.
So, that is what the really Muslim teaching is. Muslim teaching is, kind of like seeing everything,
exiling the path truth, exiling as it is, and to avoiding or to kind of obstacles of the path truth
.
Also, seeing clearly, it is like eyes of the old practices. So, that is the morality practices.
Now, without understanding, and particularly this teaching, is known as the Dzogchi teachings.
And it is path truth teachings, Dzogchi teachings.
Dzogchi teachings is again, a real thing of this Dzogchi teachings.
But again, as I said, all these three Dzogchi teachings, but also at the same time, the path truth
is can be.
Also, Dzogchi, 9 different level of teachings, 9 different level of teachings, is all path truths.
And that means, Dzogchi, a variety of joys for the practitioners, how to explore the meaning and
the nature of the goals, or resolve the goals.
But again, variety of teachings, one upon others.
Eight teachings are, for example, post-teaching. When Buddha gives the post-teaching, post-teaching
is like Shravaka teaching.
Shravaka teaching, then second teaching of the particular Buddha teaching.
Which is not, if I say, the post-level, second level, 9 different levels.
If I say, the second teaching is more determined, more clear, more liberated than the post-teaching
.
And third teaching is more elaborated post-teaching, more clear, more profound.
Poor teaching is like this. Poor, picked teaching is more clear, more elaborated, more clarityless.
It's getting closer and closer to the natures.
What did the teaching say? Clarity and expanding and completed.
So, if you go high and high, it's more clear of the teachings of the natures.
It's more clear, more precise, more detailed and more completed.
What means complete? Completed to accommodate the merit, or the techniques are completed, more
accommodated than merit,
and the techniques are more completed to put aside the negative video or response.
So, in the debate, what the teachings say? Sar, ji, zop. Sar means more clarity, and ji means more
detailed,
and zop means more complemented. One hour.
So, in that way, come to the peak of the teaching, which is ninth teaching.
Ninth jnana teaching, the peak of the ninth jnana is known as Adiyoga teachings, or the Jockey
teachings.
Adiyoga is the peak of the teaching. Peak of the clarityless, peak of the detailedness, peak of the
completions.
There's nothing more to explain than the Jockey teachings, or Adiyoga teachings.
There's nothing more clarity of the nature, about the nature of everything than the Jockey
teachings.
There's nothing more detailed than the Jockey teachings.
What is the teaching saying? Even one person, the Buddha, comes, progresses right now with us.
There's nothing more clear, more explained, more detailed than these Jockey teachings.
That is really the peak of the Jockey teachings. Jockey is the peak of the teachings.
That means it's ultimate nature. There's nothing in order to go, to explore the nature,
and there's nothing more, more polar, self-scary technique than the Jockey to discover in the
nature,
or the enlightenment, or Buddha-hood. So that is what the really Jockey is.
That is the one we really connect with.
So right now, when there's a Jockey teaching, the greatest teacher, the Buddha, did not give these
Jockey teachings,
or even the Vedayana teachings, openly in India, when the Buddha came,
two thousand, six hundred years ago, he did not give, openly.
Then, when he gave, according to the teachings, he gave these all the Vedayana teachings in the
higher state,
higher realm, at the same time when he gave the teaching of the poor novelty of the teachings.
At the same time when he gave the second turning well of the downloads.
At the same time when he gave the card turning well of the downloads, all the other times,
it's not limited, restricted by the time in space.
Where even the readiness, the audience, who are capable to observe, to receive, to adjust the
teaching,
that teaching is its own and a rewarding thing.
So Buddha gave these higher realms, and this higher realm is known as Vaak, the Akanishta in
Sanskrit.
In a debate, it translated "Omen", and that ever translated into English.
The realm of the within, not the duality. A realm of the beyond duality. Land of the beyond duality
.
That's the one where Buddha gave these teachings.
So for that reason, in the teaching saying, according to his story, when Buddha is entering Mahab
harata in the Rangas, in 881 in the Kushina,
that time many Sangha members are gathered. All highly-realizing great beings, the Bodhisattvas,
and many many Shabakas, and Ahavas, many of those enlightened beings, really gathered around Buddha
.
Buddha announced he was going to enter Mahabharata in the Rangas.
In the teaching, in the Mahayana teaching, his story says, among the gurus, the many Shri, the
western Bodhisattva,
or many Shri, the great was involving all the Bodhisattvas of the westerns, many Shri was there too
.
Many Shri asked Buddha, all great teachers, "You give the teachings, all the causal teachings,
causal teachings, but you did not give the result teachings."
When that will happen, that's it.
And now these are two terminologies. I use causal and results.
I'm sure many of you already know what that means.
But few of you don't know what it means, causal and result.
Causal means working with cause, with conditions, getting in line, or result, in line, is result.
So more purpose, more purpose, more emphasize gathering the conditions with cause and trying to
develop the result.
That is known as causal.
And that means what? This, all the subtle teachings, you work with cause for the enlightenment.
Cause, you already had the cause, but you work with conditions, cause and condition connected.
One is a condition, of course, in the teachings said here too, great Master Mohanamud said here too
,
that's, have to tell those things, have to explain and have to remind that things to all
practitioners.
One is a condition of to get enlightenment.
It's true merits, true merits are conditions.
Here, great Master Mohanamud said, said here, at the end of this booklet,
said here, said, the path is true merits, that must be true merits.
Here, what in the teaching said, do not ignore the merit of the accumulations.
The ground is the true truth, the path is true merit, the result is the union of the two guides.
It is important to have these additional words or the additional teacher or have to talk during
these teachings,
that teaching, but we are going to go through this.
So in a way, it says that, so therefore, again, this is the condition of to get enlightenment, it's
true merits.
So you're working with to merit and with cause and like to get enlightenment, and getting
enlightenment, it will get enlightenment.
That is known as, working with cause of the enlightenment is called causal yanas.
All these Mahayana teachings, Kerevada teachings, are considered as causal yanas, particularly Mah
ayanas.
Result yana means, you're working with result now, immediately result, the fruit, result, like to
get.
You're not really working with cause or you're immediately working with result.
What that means, because Mahayana teaching has so many matters.
You know, Mahayana teaching said, Mahayana has poor spell qualities or poor external needs, which
is,
Mahayana teaching is not blurred, view of the Mahayana teaching is not blurred or not vague, it's
so brilliant, so clear, so clarityless.
And the Mahayana teaching is not, kind of, limited, skillful means.
Mahayana teaching has so many skillful means to apply, to remove, instantly, the negativities and
obscurations and habit dependence,
in the world, in like magic natures, and then Mahayana teaching, therefore, it's not hardships.
If you know the right way to apply, it's not difficult at all, not hardships.
It's easy, easy life, easy comfortable, if you have the right skills.
Why? Because all the Mahayana practitioners have highly culpability, highly alerted individuals.
That's what in the teaching said.
What in this is not known as Susan Gromis, in that teaching said.
I said already, but this quotation, I like to grade it, it's not coming in my mind.
But the meaning I said is tawa mamupas, tawa mamupas, tawa mamupas.
Okay, so the meaning, what I said is really is to, the meaning, the will is so clear, will is
perfect, perfect.
Will is perfect, and method is so many methods, meditation, and activity, conduct is so simple,
easy, and therefore, it is high culpability.
Anyway, so that is what the Mahayana teaching is.
So, among the Mahayana teaching, among the Mahayana teaching, zouki is the peak of that, of all the
teachings, is high as the teachings.
There's nothing higher to go than these teachings.
So that is, so that teaching, how this teaching came, now, as the great Maha Buddha said, said,
when you feel it's said,
or you did not give the cause, only you give the cause of teaching, did not expound the result's
teachings, and Buddha said.
And I said, those who are Buddha said, said, I give the teaching, those who are so keen and
interested of the cause and the condition teaching, I give that teaching so clearly.
But those who are highly, in high culpability and interested, and like to have that, that
immediately approaching enlightenment teaching,
that teaching what I give already, in higher realm, and soon after Maha Maha Pari Narayana, that
those teachings will appear, as time is reading.
As Buddha said, according to teaching, 27 years after the Buddha kept coming is Maha Pari Narayana,
and all the very other teachings are beginning to appear in one after another.
What means, all very other teachings, Kriya Tantal teachings, Opa Tantal teachings, and Yova Tantal
teachings, and Maha Yova teachings, Anu Yova teachings,
and Ahti Yova teachings, or the Doki teachings, all those are coming one after another.
It has very beautiful, long histories, how those teachings appear, one after another is dead, and
of course, you can find that more in the books and all that.
I'm not going to trouble those things now. But particularly, among that, in the Doki teachings, how
these Doki teachings came.
As Buddha already gave, in the higher realm, and the teachings said, all these Doki teachings are
in the Doki teachings,
and these courses received so many, those highly, highly comparable practitioners, but it is
preserved and gathered by the Vedya Panis.
Vedya Panis, all the Sana Dorjus, Vedya Panis, and as well as the Vedya Sadas.
And so, these teachings then, appeared again around 27 years of the Buddhism Maha Pari Narayana.
There is, in the Urjana, west of India, there is remarkable, individually, emanation was born,
miracle is born, known as Garab Dorjus,
or Asya Vethika in Sanskrit, it was born. The moment he was born, born, he was remarkable in life,
and he is completely awake in the way of death.
And then, soon after, he was able to receive entirely teachings of the Doki from Vedya Panis and as
well as Vedya Sadas.
He received entirely teachings. Entire Doki teachings made work.
According to the teaching, there is in the teaching said, in the Doki
Dantara, over 60, hundred total Doki Dantas, that is transmitted to Garab Dorjus, from Vedya Panis
or Vedya Sadas.
So now, Garab Dorjus becomes the sole Doki lineage holders of this earth, earth.
And Garab Dorjus, he shared these teachings. Then, according to the teaching, it is a single
lineage most of the time,
but three of the first students he shared, but among them, foremost students, it is mandatory
matters.
So, Garab Dorjus, how in the teaching said this? Garab Dorjus gave all those teachings to Manjich
iri Madras.
In Manjichiri Madras, when he received the teachings, he became the holder of now entire Doki
teachings
and Manjichiri Madras led to group Doki teachings in three sections.
Those are known as mind sections, and space sections, and pit instruction sections.
And also in the teaching said, outer sections of the mind, Doki teaching,
and inner sections of the space, Doki teaching, known as lungdeo, or the space section.
And the essence, the secret sections of the Doki teaching is known as pit instruction sections, D
oki teachings.
So those are three groups.
And Manjichiri Madras also, many, many students, he was a very great scholar, very great master of
scholars.
He is a many student, but Doki teaching, according to the teaching, that he only handed, shared to
the great master, Sirisa.
Sirisa. So, Sirisa has become the principal leading holders of the Doki teachings.
Now, Sirisa, again, the third section, the secret section of the Doki teaching,
Sirisa, again, clarified, organized in a way that in four different sections, outer, inner, and
secret,
and very, very secret sections, four sections, that Sirisa clarified and created.
And that teaching, those old teachings, came then to the Hiri Sangha, the three students, these
teachings,
to the Merope Masambha, to Yana Sukhara, and Vumal Matas, three great masters.
All become, every one of those great masters, become transcendental what's the land body who
achieved, transcendental what's the land body.
So, those are the three students. Among those three students, this Doki teaching is bored to Tibet
by great masters,
Gurup M Masambha and Vumal Matara. So, Vumal Matara and great master, Gurup M Masambha,
bore the teachings of the pit instructions, teachings of those Hiri Sangha's teachings, teaching to
Tibet.
Which is essence of the teachings. Then, in a minute, the very Buddhism came out, developing, in
eight centuries,
and around, maybe, eight centuries, twelve, like mid-eight centuries, centuries,
and then Merope Masambha, what I call it as a historic, and if I say roughly, that Merope Masambha,
Merope Masambha and Gurup M Masambha came, seven in the sixties, eighty, to Tibet, and establish
that,
and help to build the post-Buddhist monasteries in Tibet.
And after monasteries are completed, so many students are gathered, because the king, the desire of
the King Joseph of Italy is really to bring the entire Buddha down in Tibet.
The entire teaching, the scriptural and the realisation practice, the lineage that he really likes
to bring.
So now, the temple is complete, but the lights are not enough.
You have to now re-alternate, train the debate from that soil, that country.
So then, as I said, with Merope Masambha, Gurup M Masambha, Gurup M Masambha,
he gathered many students of young, brilliant, remarkable emanational disciples, or the young ones,
gathered, and among that, one of the brilliant emanation, reincarnation, or the emanations of the
Buddhas, or the creative beings, is Veroja.
And Veroja now, when he was growing up, and he started speaking the Sanskrit language, the Indian
language, and then he encouraged him to go to India.
He was courageous for it, and courageous determinations.
He had performed his mission of life, and we went to India, and met Magyutri mothers in the western
borders, in the particular hirizam.
He met the hirizams.
And he stayed a long time with the hirizam, and the entire teachings, the teachings of the Zokri.
Particularly from the hirizam, he received the teachings of the outer sections of the Zokri, and
the inner section of the Zokri,
which made, in the Tibetan world, simply in the long day teachings.
Both are received. I translate it simply as mind section, and the long day as spirit section, he
received all the teachings.
Then, in the teaching said, in the western border of Garabdoji and the Magyutri middle, he received
all the other teachings too.
But, when he came back, he returned back to Tibet, and then he shared particularly the Zokri
teachings of the spirit section and mind sections of the Zokri teachings to the Tibetans.
So, this is 70 and the long days are really bought and told by, bought by the great Master Shandhar
athata, the great Master Verojana, and the tax letter too.
And he shared and gave this to the Tibetan practitioners by the great Master and tax letter Veroj
ana.
So, that's all the Zokri teachings are complete.
That means, 70 is completed in Tibet, lonely is completed in Tibet, and the Menadhi is completed in
Tibet.
That particular Menadhi is then highlighted and shared by the women, Madra and Marpana Suma.
So, that is the historian of the teachings.
And all those great Masters who received the Zokri teachings,
they all reached the tax letter of Master Verojana within their single life-time.
Not just only that, so many of those are ledundi, and the 70 practitioners really reached the tax
letter of Master Verojana, one after another.
So, among that, today's what we are talking about is the Mehmagdi, the pit structures, surface of
the teachings.
Mehmagdi has pit structures.
And that is, then, what, again, great Master Verojana, divided or clarified by the group,
two sections or three sections.
And two sections, which is known as the Gada Tachu and the Nandam Togaras.
Currently, the techniques of the Vero from the beginning, known as the Gada Tachu teachings,
sort of Togaras, spontaneously inherited, often leaping over techniques opposite of Togaras.
And then, how to ascend it, the moment of death, it will elicit it, ram the bodies.
Those techniques are the pit and surface of the teachings.
That is great is two Masters, Mumal Madhara and Gurba Masumbha, highlighted.
Mumal Madhara teachings, Gurba Masumbha teachings, mainly that highlights the teachings from the
Thermas.
Therma, hidden and rediscovered Therma lineages.
And, Mumal Madhara teachings is both.
Of course, also Gurba Masumbha is both too.
But that is how it is. Both mean the Gama and Therma.
Fourth lineages, that's very continuous.
And among that two methods of Tachu is highly, highly kind of like well-renowned and well-metered,
Gada Tachu and the Nandam Togaras.
Among that two Tachu teachings, and today's, what we are going through, this old Mumal Madhara
teaching,
is on the Gada Tachu teachings.
Gada, Babur, Pranbighi.
Cutting Thoros, and that is what I am translating.
Cutting Thoros, what is cutting Thoros?
Now, all the happy Tibetans, that all the happy Tibetans,
deposits accumulated from the big list times, this technique, of the Duking technique,
is cutting that instant, without any trash, without any trace.
It's cutting that instant.
That powerful technique, and when you practice that powerful teachings with good foundations,
good foundations, rich enlightenment, is not measured by the eons or many lifetimes.
They are called the teachings. If you practice, anyone who practices, with foundations,
with tall instructions, with that, with heart, it's good enlightenment.
Of the enlightenment is only measured by the eons or even months in the teaching stage.
So that is what this great teaching is.
Today, we are going to talk about this.
Again, in a way, I am going to talk, as I said, you all read the books,
many of those Duking teaching books, and they read the teachings from many great masters.
And this year, it has, in a way, become one of the strange times in our times,
or maybe in many stories. The whole world is almost kind of locked.
Therefore, there is not many of those great masters are able to visit,
as often we have opportunities. So they are all kind of like this.
This really situation is completely, kind of like, kind of stuck with it,
all kind of completely changed for that reason.
And with my old Simba members, Dharma friends, assistants, with technologies,
I thought, we all thought, maybe somebody can help to activate it,
that will support to all your knowledge, all your understanding,
your practices by this, this what we are doing together, in a way.
So that means, I am, in a way, reminding, reminding, refreshing some degree
that can be benefitted to understand of your meditation and your Duking teaching,
and your support, so that we can move forward.
That's it. And also some degree doesn't end in this situation.
And the moral essence of Duking teaching is that it was still in a competitive status,
and some benefitted to all the other beings too.
This is, because our practice is really, is again, in Mahayana practice,
totally best upon body jettas.
Whether you are talking about the body jetta of the relative levels,
or absolute true level, Duking is absolutely best on the body jetta.
So therefore, when you practice that, also really, we are in a relative body jetta level,
we really extending and dedicating this merit for all living beings,
and to remove their suffering, difficulty is, and free from suffering and difficult trouble.
That's why we're joined. We also really, we mean, it's not just saying on the brain,
the kind of, as the mambar, with the kind of, as a robot, robot.
It's truly, we mean that. That, as the enemy of all, that.
So if we do that, that is really practice. That is not practice,
but that is also known, accumulation of merits.
Accumulation of merit, accumulation of merit.
And then Mr. Merit is the Duking meditation.
So therefore, this conference. So that's where we talk to go.
And now, with this, with this, and then now,
but I go over this now, titles, with this, this title here.
Here, as you all know that, I mean, you have title.
This title is, of course, here, and here.
It's called in this page, and as I said earlier, you all know this, you all have this.
Discovering the primordial wisdom through Duking meditation
and the importance of the stabilizing ripper for the practitioners.
So that's really, and very good for us.
We all received a lot of teachings, but now we have to stabilize this.
And also, we have to maintain this.
So this quote, that is what it is.
And now, if I go according to this title, and I'm into it, what is it?
If those individual who knows to read it, you can also read this.
Rengo Chung Tham. Rengo Chung Tham is method how to maintain the will of,
you know, of the raka or the awareness, how to move,
how to maintain the will of the raka.
When you maintain that will of the raka,
that is the essence, that moment.
We are with the essence of the wisdom, essence of the primordial wisdom.
When you maintain that.
So that is what it really means.
Now, I'm going to talk a little bit about this right in the page,
and how the primordial wisdom of this raka, also we have read about raka.
Raka, and of course, you all know, you heard, I mean, we all heard raka.
According to raka, raka has quite two different meanings,
or at least two different meanings.
Meanings, according to sattara level, meaning,
and according to zoti level meanings.
Even though it's the same spelling in Tibet, same grammar, same spelling,
but it changed quite big between context we're using this word.
Whether it's in sattara, or whether it's in zoti teachings.
In sattara teaching, raka is means mind, conception.
Raka, lord, raka, siva, those are in the very word, lord means mind.
And siva means knowledge.
Raka means again, talk, talk.
So it's all passing, talking about mind.
It's about mind.
Mind.
And dukki, when you talk about raka, it's not conception.
It's not talk.
It's not just merely knowledge.
What is that?
According to dukki teaching, this raka means it is primordial resistance.
It is pristine awareness.
It is cognizance.
It is the mind that, as I suppose you all used,
mind that which is free from dualities,
that pristine, the cognition, awareness.
Awareness free from the dualities, subject and object.
That is really the awareness.
That is raka.
So in dukki teaching, raka, it is said only in the sotrayana Mahayana teaching,
it is tathana dha garbha.
Buddha nature.
It is Buddha nature.
It is tathana dha garbha.
Tathana dha garbha or the Buddha nature.
Buddha sees what is in the teachings, what the great master.
Jimungenpa said, essence of the Mahayana sotrayana teaching
is the Buddha nature or the Buddha, essence of Buddha,
which is free from the three character states.
Three character states.
Or is the character's nature of the three,
number type of ghost of the intimate?
Free from the three character states, I have translate it roughly.
Means free from the character states, free from the identity,
and nature is emptiness.
That comment, which is essence of the nature of tathana dha garbha,
but that is known as in dukki teaching, is known as raka.
Or that is dukki.
That is dukki.
So raka is dukki or raka is tathana dha garbha, the pure nature.
It is ordinary nature.
This dathana dha nature or dathana dha garbha, ordinary nature,
I'm not talking somebody else.
We're talking here.
Buddha is pointing out us, right to each of us,
our nature, your own nature of the mind.
Right now it is the saint, woman, and what's called pristine at the cognitions,
free from the dualities.
That is raka.
That realization, when you have that, that is what the great master,
Thad Kannamma also said in teaching, said.
This has so many names, he said.
So many names.
Because since this raka, I'm using now as the dukki terminal in raka,
raka is free from the existing, non-existing, neither and either,
therefore it is known as matemaka, middle way.
Not any sides, not any directions.
Therefore it is matemakas.
So this is matemaka.
We are going today, the dukki teaching is again,
teaching to the cudepkad, right to the balls up.
It's not coming from outskirts, gradually to the center.
We are exploring from the center going outward, word.
Therefore it is an essence of matemakas.
That's what the Thad Kannamma said.
Again, more of again what he said.
Sense is free from all the conceptions.
This raka is free from all the conceptions, all the analytics.
Therefore it is matemakas, sorry, therefore it is Mahamudas.
Therefore it is great Mahamudas.
It is free from all the analytics, free from all the conceptions.
That which is again, talking our own innate nature of the Mahamudas.
Then what again he said, this great Master says.
In this space, in this awareness, everything is completed.
Everything is completed.
That means the samsara is completed within this awareness.
Narvana is completed within this awareness.
Therefore it is known as great completions.
Which means another terminology of zokki, zokki in it a bit.
All is completed.
That means what? All the parts, all the bhumis, all the stages, all the teachings.
What the great teacher Buddha Shatyamuni gave is all completed.
And some other teaching, those many great Master said.
Buddha gave all those teachings, 80th portfolio namah, standard of teachings of the Buddha.
80th portfolio with different teachings, variety of teachings, give only to explore this.
Explore all this, with this rupa, the awareness.
Tatha natha natha natha natha, Buddha nature, terminology or Mahamudara, Madhemaga, or zokki.
That is what really he gave all these teachings.
So therefore, the rupa is the old in the nature.
Our fresh nature.
It is Buddha nature.
And we behold this Buddha nature as great Master Mohanudya is saying here.
Here, here we are beholding Buddha right with, right this instant.
What Buddha is? The Dharmakaya Buddha.
We are really beholden.
Dharmakaya Buddha, we are beholding, we are recognizing.
In order to discover, to maintain this, then the teaching says.
I mean, all the great Masters, one voice will include the Buddha Shatyamuni, the good foundations.
All the Mundo practices.
These Mundo teachings, Mundo practices, is not a discursive or obstacle course for our practice.
It is a reactivating, preparing tree, a just entry.